Good afternoon, everyone.
Welcome to session 108, VoiceOver and
Making Your Carbon Application Accessible
.
My name is Patti Yeh,
and I'm a software engineer
with the VoiceOver team.
Let me go ahead and give you a sense
what we're going to be talking about.
If I could find where my clicker is.
Here we go.
I think I'm missing a slide.
Oh, well.
Let me just go ahead and
tell you what we're going to
cover in the session today.
In the session today,
in the first 15 minutes or so,
I'll tell you about VoiceOver.
I'll tell you why you should
make your application accessible.
Later on,
I'll give you a demonstration of some
of the basic features of VoiceOver.
After that,
we'll have Guy Fullerton up on
stage to show you how to make
your application accessible.
So, for those of you who don't
know what VoiceOver is,
it's Apple Screen Reader technology.
Some of you may have heard it at
yesterday's State of Union presentation.
But if you haven't, VoiceOver,
what it does is it speaks all the
activities on the screen for you.
And for the Tiger release,
we're supporting English.
ScreenReader is also an alternative
interface for users to interact with
the computer without ever having to
use the mouse or the screen display.
There's the session overview if
you didn't catch that earlier.
VoiceOver is fully integrated
into the operating system.
It is built in.
What does that mean?
It means it is part of
the installation process.
And if you're ready to
set up your computer,
it is there to help you,
to guide you through it.
If you wait for the
MacBuddy music to stop,
this is what you'll hear.
The volume, volume please.
All right, well it looks like we
don't have the audio here.
But if you go and install your DVD,
I encourage you to try it out
and see what you hear from it.
So, VoiceOver is available for
you during login time too.
And,
By saying that it is built-in
means that it's part of the Finder,
Desktop, Menu Bar, Dock, etc.
Also, many of the applications
shipped with Tiger are already
accessorized to work with VoiceOver,
and we sincerely hope that your
application will be accessible soon,
too.
Like I said earlier,
VoiceOver is fully integrated
into the operating system.
What's more than just that is installed
by default onto every Tiger system.
That means a user can now walk
up to any computer running Tiger.
Could be the computer lab, Apple Store,
library, you name it.
Press Command F5 to turn VoiceOver on,
and bang, the computer is now accessible.
So who will benefit from using VoiceOver?
Well, obviously those who
are visually impaired,
blind, or learning disabled.
It's more than just that.
It's everyone who collaborates with them.
That could be the parent, the teacher,
the co-worker,
sighted folks like you and I who
are working together with a screen
reader user on that same computer.
Later in my demonstration,
I'll show you some of those visual cues
that help those who are collaborating
to work together with the screen
reader user so they can follow along
when they're using the computer.
So who else will benefit
from using VoiceOver?
Well, I for one will.
See, computer is very important to me.
On a daily basis,
I probably use it for email,
surfing the web, doing work,
all these things, right?
And also,
I store a lot of stuff on my computer,
like digital photos, MP3 songs,
my financial documents, et cetera.
So I don't know what I would do
now if I can't use my computer.
See, the other thing is, as I get older,
I might lose my vision.
I might have a harder
time to use the mouse.
So when you combine those together,
it may be harder to use the computer,
and it could be at one point where
I won't be able to access my computer.
The good news is Apple has already
done a lot of things to make sure that
there's an alternative interface for
users to use that computer via VoiceOver.
So all of us can potentially
benefit from this.
So as a developer that's
representing your company,
you may be wondering,
what is the business benefit of
making your application accessible?
The short answer is Section 508.
Section 508 is a US law that
states all government agencies must
provide access to member of the
public and the disabled employees.
And similar laws and trends are
happening around the world too.
So by simply making your
application accessible,
You have a much higher chance
to increase your market share.
And as an example,
the education system now could begin to
evaluate your product when they're making
that next round of software purchases.
So, of course,
what's good for you is good for Apple.
Apple's market share will increase,
which will then come back and
boost your market even further.
It's good for all of us.
So at this time,
I would like to go ahead and go
to the demo to show you some of
the basic features of VoiceOver.
So, first thing we have to
do is turn VoiceOver on.
For those of you who might have
attended yesterday's session
or heard me earlier today,
remember what the key is to turn it on.
Command F5.
VoiceOver on Finder 108.
Demo selected folder.
Okay, so the task I'm going to show
you today is we're just going
to go and check our email.
So to do that,
I'll go ahead and go to the
doc and launch Mail.app.
Doc Finder Runny System Preferences
Mail Runny Mail Inbox 26
Messages Window Delete Button
Remember earlier I promised you I'll
show you some of those visual cues?
Well,
here on the screen you see two of those.
One is the caption panel toward
the bottom of the window.
Everything you hear, we provide a textual
representation of that,
too.
The other one is the
black box surrounding the
Delete button in the Mail.app.
And that is what we call
the VoiceOver cursor.
So as I navigate around, you,
the audience, which is, you know,
as the collaborator,
can follow along while
I'm using this computer.
So let's go ahead and move around.
Change button.
Reply button.
Reply all button.
And of course, if you have low vision,
here's something that will help you.
Thank you.
VoiceOver cursor size 3, 4.
All right, and we can still move around.
Reply button, check button,
delete button.
Let's go ahead and turn Zoom off for now.
VoiceOver 2, 1.
All right,
we're ready to go and check what is
the selected message in my inbox.
Messages table.
Interact with messages table
on Star Wars Mary Beth James.
Okay, well let's see what Mary Beth has
to say about Star Wars.
Clicked item text: "Patti,
have you seen Star Wars yet?
I saw it in San Francisco and
it was great.
Have a great weekend.
Mary Beth." Well,
how many of you have seen Star Wars?
Hello, most of you.
Well, how many of you like it?
Well, I love it.
I mean, it's great.
So I'm going to go ahead
and tell Mary Beth that.
There's a couple ways I can
reply to this message.
One is I could go up to the reply
button by the toolbar and press that.
Or if I know the keyboard shortcut,
I could do that.
But since I can't remember
what the shortcut is,
I'm going to go up to the menu.
Menu bar on Apple.
Mail message.
Message menu.
Send again.
Reply.
Command R.
Okay, we found what we're looking for.
Reply.
Read Star Wars window.
18 items.
Send button.
And if I forgot to mention,
all this time I'm not using the mouse.
Okay?
So what we want to do is we want to
go ahead and reply to this message.
So I'm going to go down to
where that blinking cursor is.
Menu HTM interacting.
And notice I canceled some of the speech.
So anytime when you,
for example right now I'm talking to
you or if you want to do something else
and you don't want to hear something,
you could at any time
cancel or pause the speech.
So what I am going to do right now
is reply to her and say I spell
these A I E S O O exclamation mark.
Um, first what you just heard is
it's echoing every character
back to you as I'm typing this.
So I want to verify that this is what,
you know, I want to reply back to her.
So let's go ahead and read this again.
I love it too.
So this is just reading word by word.
We have many other text commands and
many other things you can play with.
And since VoiceOver is
on every Tiger system,
I encourage you to give it a try.
Later on,
we'll show you where to get some
of those VoiceOver commands.
So at this point, though,
I want to go ahead and
send this message off.
So for most of us who are sighted,
what we usually do is we
just glance up and see,
oh, there's a send button.
Let's go ahead and take
a mouse and click on it,
right?
Well,
for people who are visually impaired,
it's a little bit harder because
they have to go and navigate
through the entire window and
find where the send button is.
So what we have is this thing
called ItemChooser to help them out.
Build ItemChooser menu, 25 items.
Okay, it's telling me there's 25
items on this window alone.
That's still going to
take a little bit of time.
So I'm going to do a little
shortcut called the type.
Type ahead and type S-E-N-D.
One item, send button.
So it found what I'm looking for.
Send button.
And notice that the VoiceOver cursor
is now on the send button.
So let's go ahead and press that,
assuming we have network here.
Prep text.
Patty, have you seen-- Good.
Okay, we just sent it off.
So let's go ahead and turn VoiceOver off.
VoiceOver off.
So what I just shown you is
something we do on a daily basis.
You know, it's kind of like waking
up in the morning.
Brushing your teeth, checking your email.
Something we do and we take for granted.
But keep in mind,
there's people out there who haven't
been able to use Mac OS X because
they couldn't even do something
as simple as checking their email.
Now they could with VoiceOver.
The VoiceOver team has done a lot
of work in TigerTime Friend to
provide this alternative interface
for users to use the computer.
Plus, the accessibility team has worked
really hard in the last couple of
years to build up this great foundation
of accessibility APIs so that your
application could work together
and communicate with the computer.
So...
In a nutshell, most of the work has
already been done for you.
But you still need to do a
little bit of work to complete
that accessibility solution.
And that's why you're here today.
So, would you mind putting back
the presentation slide?
Presentation slide, please.
Thank you.
So what do you need to do to
make your application accessible?
Well, first of all,
support the Accessibility APIs.
And Guy Fullerton will come up to
show you how to do that shortly.
Secondly,
support full keyboard navigation.
By that, I mean you should be able to
take using the keyboard only.
Try to navigate around every
widget in your application.
If you could do that,
that is full keyboard navigation.
And of course, if you have any operation
that's done by the mouse,
please provide keyboard
alternative for that.
As an example,
you know how in Finder you could take
the mouse and drag and drop files?
Well, what Finder has done is provide a
keyboard alternative to do that exact
same thing using copy and paste.
So,
as you continue to develop your software,
I want you to keep these
three points in mind.
If you leave the session not
remembering anything else,
at least remember these three points.
Okay?
So, of course,
we have some tools to help you out.
In the developer package,
you're going to find
these following tools:
accessibility verifier and
accessibility inspector.
Later on in the presentation,
we'll show you how to use the inspector.
But most importantly,
please test with VoiceOver.
Okay?
The key diagram you see up above,
it contains some of
the VoiceOver commands.
You can download that on
the website listed below.
So download this PDF file.
Take about 15 minutes.
Learn some of the commands.
And at the end of the day,
I want you to unplug your mouse,
turn off your screen display.
And of course, if you have a laptop,
you might not be able to do that.
So we have a VoiceOver command to allow
you to temporarily disable your screen.
So find out what that
command is from the file.
I want you to use the VoiceOver commands
you learned and without the
mouse or the computer display,
if you could get to every spot in
your application and you could use
your application without any problem,
then you know you've
done the right thing.
Okay?
So with that, I would like to go ahead
and turn to Guy Fullerton.
No?
Oh, there we go.
That's much better.
All right.
So I'm going to explain everything
you need to know to make your
Carbon application accessible.
And I'm going to start with
a quick overview of the
Accessibility architecture.
Now, if you've been to these kind
of sessions in the past,
you've probably seen a diagram
that looks a lot like this.
This represents the fact that
the Accessibility architecture
allows an assistive app,
which is that app over on the left,
to communicate with a wide variety
of other apps running on Mac OS X,
regardless of what framework was
used to implement those applications.
So assistive apps can
talk to Carbon apps,
and they can talk to Cocoa apps,
and they can talk to Java apps,
even though those three flavors of
applications use fairly different
APIs to generate their windows
and views and menus and so forth.
So let's take a look at how the
Accessibility architecture allows
an assistive app like VoiceOver to
communicate with your Carbon app.
So VoiceOver might need to
query your app about something.
It might need to know what user interface
element is at a particular point.
So it's going to send a
message across process,
which is going to be
caught by the green box,
which is sort of the
Carbon Accessibility implementation.
And we're going to translate
that into a Carbon event,
this getChildAtPoint Carbon event.
And we're going to route it to
the right place in your app.
Now, part of your app is going
to catch that Carbon event,
and it may decide that that mouse
point is over a push button.
So that code will build a UI element,
which is a framework-agnostic way of
representing a piece of your interface.
It's going to build that UI element,
which represents the button,
and will put it in that
Carbon event as an output parameter.
That UI element then is shuttled
back across process to VoiceOver.
And VoiceOver might think about it a
little bit and decide that it wants
to know more about that element.
So it sends another message.
message.
The Carbon Accessibility
implementation catches that message
and translates it into a Carbon event.
In this case,
the assistive app VoiceOver wanted
to know what the role of
a given UI element is,
or in other words, what its purpose is.
So we translate that into a get
named attribute Carbon event.
And that Carbon event gets
sent to the UI element.
You'll see how that's
possible in a little bit.
The Carbon event comes with
two pieces of information.
It comes with the attribute
that VoiceOver was interested
in finding out about,
in this case the role,
and it comes with the UI element.
You're going to need to extract
some information about it.
So it's a button that
you were asked about.
You knew it was a button.
So you put that role,
a standard system role,
which is K-A-X button role,
into the Carbon event
as an output parameter,
which then gets shuttled
back over to VoiceOver.
VoiceOver might present some
information to the user,
and the user might decide that
they want to press the button.
So VoiceOver issues another
command to press that UI element,
which again gets translated
into yet another Carbon event,
which goes to the UI element.
And that Carbon event
comes with the UI element,
as well as the action that
the user wanted to invoke,
in this case press.
And then it's up to your application
to carry out the appropriate response.
You might do something like
call HIVU simulate click,
which causes the button to flash
and send out the appropriate
Carbon events for control hit and
commands and things like that.
This all works because we have
a framework-agnostic way to
describe a piece of the interface.
What does that mean?
That means you can make a
UI element to represent virtually
any part of this window.
You can make a UI element that
represents that segmented view there.
You can make a UI element that represents
just a part of that segmented view,
that second segment
in the segmented view.
You can make one that
represents some static text.
You can make one that represents a
custom view or even a window or even
a menu or even the HI application
object supported by Carbon.
So how is this possible?
Well, on Carbon, a UI element is composed
of two separate pieces.
The first is a reference
to any arbitrary HI object.
Now, views, the Carbon views,
HIV ref or control refs, are HI objects.
Window refs are HI objects.
Menu refs are HI objects.
And our application object
is also an HI object.
So this reference can be to any
one of those types of constructs.
This reference can also be to a custom
HI object subclass that you create.
[Transcript missing]
Let me show you a quick example of that.
So I was talking before that
you can have an element that
represents the entire segmented view.
So in this case,
the HI object in the element will
be the segmented view's HI view ref,
and the identifier will be zero.
Now, zero has a very special meaning
in terms of the identifier space.
It always means the entire HI object ref.
In this case,
because we're trying to create
an element that represents
the entire segmented view,
the identifier is zero.
Now, in contrast,
if we want to represent segment
two of the segmented view,
the HI object ref is
going to be the same.
It's still going to
be the segmented view.
But the identifier is going to be two.
Now, how do you know what
the right identifier is?
Well, the answer is it depends on
your view implementation.
Like I said on the earlier slide,
the identifier space is completely
private to the view implementation.
But in a few cases for the system views,
we publicize the identifier space.
We know, for example,
that your application may
want to generate an element.
So we tell you that identifier
one means the first segment,
identifier two means the second segment,
and so on.
Most views, however,
keep the identifier space private.
The only other one I can think
of where we publicize the
identifier space is the tabs view.
Because again,
there are times when you might
need to provide a description
for tab two in a tab view.
Obviously,
managing elements is very important
in your accessibility implementation.
You create them with the AXUI element
create with HI object and identifier API.
It's a very straightforward API.
It takes the HI object ref
and an identifier and it
gives you back the element.
The element is a CF type ref,
so you can put it in dictionaries
and arrays if you need to.
So, of course, to release it,
you call CF release.
Now, once you have an element,
and you're going to get elements in most
of your accessibility Carbon events,
once you have one,
you often need to decompose
it to look and see what the
HI object and the identifier are.
So, we have the two APIs listed there to
extract those two pieces of information.
Okay, so let's take a look at the
effort required to accessorize
a Carbon application.
So you can think of the effort,
the total effort involved,
as a big pyramid of effort.
Now, thankfully,
The system has already built
most of that pyramid for you.
We already provide accessibility
information for all the
standard system controls,
windows, menus, and so on.
So your application is only left
with a much smaller amount of effort.
Let's go ahead and zoom in on that
tip of the pyramid and talk about
each of the steps you'll need to take.
The first step to becoming accessible is
doing a bunch of basic work that isn't
even necessarily accessibility work.
The second step is to provide context
about certain system controls when
the system isn't able to give all
of the information to the user.
The third step is to remove
extraneous UI elements from
your accessibility hierarchy.
Next, you need to provide accessibility
information for your custom views.
And finally,
some of you may need to provide
accessibility information
for the completely custom
parts of your interface.
These are things that aren't even
necessarily implemented within HIView.
So let's go ahead and look
in detail at the basics.
So like I said,
these are things that aren't
necessarily accessibility features,
but they're features that accessibility
can leverage and give a better overall
experience because you implemented.
A great example of that, like Patti said,
is implementing full keyboard navigation.
That's going to make you a better
overall application in terms of a user
that doesn't want to use the mouse,
but it's not strictly an
accessibility feature.
And a lot of other users,
particularly Matt right there,
really wants your application
to be keyboard navigable.
So you're going to make a wider user base
happy when they use your application.
Another great example is using
window proxies for your windows.
If you're a document-based application,
generally you want to have the
little proxy icon in your window
title bar so that the user can
click and drag a document away.
It'll also support a path pop-up,
so you can find the path to your
document and reveal it in the finder.
And that's very cool functionality,
but it also happens to allow the window
manager to add an AX document as well.
So you can add a document to
that window list for free.
Similarly, support help tags and the
accessibility subsystem can
provide all of that information
through the AX help attributes.
So once you've done that,
you've taken the first step of
building your accessibility pyramid,
and it's time to move on to the second,
which is providing context.
Now, what do I mean by providing context?
Well, let's take a look at an
example interface here.
This is a snapshot of the
toolbar up at the top left-hand
part of the Finder window.
And you can see a number of buttons here.
And as a sighted user,
I know what the purpose of
all those buttons are for.
I know that the leftmost
one is a back button,
and there's a right button,
and there's a view switcher,
and one takes me to column view
and icon view and so forth.
But to a non-sighted user,
those buttons are just anonymous.
There's no kind of textual
description that VoiceOver can speak.
So it's up to your application to provide
something called an AX description that
represents those buttons' purposes.
Another type of context you need to
provide is for something like this.
What you're looking at here is a
screenshot from an application that
takes shipping information from somebody.
Maybe it's a web-based form
for a shipping program.
I have a static text off to the left
which says "Shipping Address," and I have
four edit text fields to the right that
allow the user to type in their address.
Each of those text fields by themselves
is kind of this anonymous entity.
A non-cited user doesn't know
what the purpose of each of
those text fields are unless your
application gives us some clue.
It just so happens that your app already
gave a cited user a clue by virtue of
putting that static text piece on there.
What your application needs to do is
link those two sets of views together.
Each of those text fields needs to
have an attribute added to it called
the AXTitleUIElement attribute.
The value of that attribute
will be a UI element that
refers to the static text.
In a way, you're saying that this
edit text right here,
its title can be found
over in this other element.
The reverse relationship
also needs to be established.
As you can see from the screenshot,
it's actually a one-to-many relationship.
You need to set up an
axServesAsTitleForUIElements
attribute on the static text field.
Build an array of UI elements,
one representing each one
of those edit text fields.
Use that array as the
value of the text field.
So what you're saying is this
static text field serves as the
title for several other elements.
So in general,
you're going to want to take a look at
your interface and find places where
you either have views that don't have
titles or you have views that have titles
represented by some other view and link
those together or provide descriptions.
And I generally refer to these
as auxiliary attributes because
that's what the API is named.
So I'd like to bring up David McCloud,
who is a card-carrying member
of the Accessibility Task Force,
as you can see by his T-shirt.
And he's going to drive the
machine as we add some auxiliary
attributes to an interface.
Okay.
So the first thing we want
to do is run our sample app.
Building, building, building.
No errors, please.
There we go.
All right.
I think I showed the screenshot
earlier in the presentation.
What we have here is
a food pyramid window.
Go ahead and click on one of
the buttons real quick so we
get that other static text.
So this window is primarily that custom
view that's drawing the food pyramid,
and that's implemented as an
Image Map view where we're reading in an
Image Map XML file and determining where
each of those button parts are and so on.
Now beneath it,
there is some text that tells
the button you clicked on.
And beneath that,
there's a separator line and a segmented
view and a static text beneath it.
So as we examine this interface,
we can see several kinds of
problems that we need to solve,
several places where we
need to provide context.
The most obvious is probably
that big Image Map view.
There's no text in the Image Map view.
The user, an unsighted user,
isn't going to know at all
what the purpose of that is.
So we need to provide
some kind of description.
In our case, it's a food pyramid group.
It's a group around a bunch of buttons.
So we will need to provide a description
that calls it a food pyramid.
Similarly,
each of the buttons inside that
food pyramid has a text icon,
or sorry,
an icon representing its purpose.
And again, a non-sighted user isn't
going to know what that means.
So we need to give descriptions
to each of those button parts.
Then if we look at the segmented view,
it suffers from the same problem.
There's a bunch of pictures as the
title for each of those button parts,
but a picture isn't good at communicating
information to a non-sighted user.
So we need to give descriptions
to each of those buttons.
And similarly,
the segmented view as a whole doesn't
have a real title as part of the view,
but the static text beneath
it does provide some
indication as to its purpose.
So we need to link up the segmented
view with the static text beneath it.
So that's what we're going to tackle.
We're going to tackle most of that
in the first batch of source code.
All right.
So David's going to add some code here,
and I'll talk about what each bit does.
So the first thing we're going to do is
give a description to the image map view,
which is the outer food pyramid concept.
What we do is we call hiObject
setAuxiliaryAccessibilityAttribute,
and we pass in the image map view,
which is the hiObject that we're
interested in providing a description to.
The next parameter is the identifier,
which is zero, because we want to provide
information about the whole image map.
The next parameter is the
description attribute,
which is a standard
system attribute name.
We pass that in because we're going
to be providing a description.
And the last parameter is the value
that we want to give that attribute.
In this case,
we need to give it the name Food Pyramid.
Now, it just so happens that our
Image Map View already has ways of
querying the XML and pulling any text
out of that XML that might be present.
So we're calling one of our
utility APIs to do that.
So once we've made that API call,
the Image Map View for the
Food Pyramid has a description.
So the second thing we're going to
do is we are going to associate the
static text beneath the segmented
view with the segmented view.
First, we're going to look up
the static text itself.
We're going to call find control by ID.
We happen to give it an ID in the nib
so we can look up that static text.
Next, we're going to build an element
out of the segmented view.
So to build an element, we pass -- oh,
I'm sorry, no, we're not building it out
of the segmented view.
Here we're building it
out of the static text.
We pass the static text view in,
and we pass the identifier zero.
So now we have a UI element
that represents the static
text view as a whole.
Now what we want to do is we want
to say that the segmented view's
title UI element is this static
text element we just created.
So again, we call hiObject,
setAuxiliaryAttribute,
pass in the segmented view,
pass in the identifier zero.
So we're saying associate this
attribute with the whole segmented view.
We pass in the attribute
we want to give it,
which is the title UI element,
and we pass in the value we
want to give that attribute,
which is the element of
the static text view.
So now let's go ahead and
implement the inverse relationship.
Looks very similar.
The only trick here is, like I said,
the --
An element can only have a single
title UI element attribute,
but an element might have a services
title for multiple other elements.
So what we do here is we are going to
create an array of all of the things that
the static text serves as a title for.
In this case,
there's only one thing in our array.
It's the segmented view.
So we create an element
representing the segmented view.
We build an array.
We add the element to the array.
And then we call
HIObjectSetAuxiliaryAccessibilityAttrib
ute to link the two up.
And we pass in the services
title for UIElementAttribute.
Now we're going to give
descriptions to each of the
segments of the segmented view.
This is going to quickly reinforce the
notion of identifiers other than zero.
So we call hiObjectSetAuxiliaryAttribute.
We pass in the hiviewref
of the segmented view.
And now instead of passing zero in to
represent the whole segmented view,
we pass either one, two,
or three in to represent one of the
three parts of the segmented view.
Then we pass in the
description attribute,
which is the attribute we want to give,
and then an appropriate
value for those attributes.
Okay, so let's go ahead and rebuild and
rerun and take a look at that with the
Accessibility Inspector application.
Make the font really, really big.
Ah, yes.
Good.
Okay, so now if we hover over
the food pyramid view,
You can see that we've given it a
description called Food Pyramid.
Now there's some other problems with it.
You see that it's an AX unknown,
and we're gonna solve
those problems later.
But for now,
you can see that we've actually given
a description called AX Food Pyramid.
We can look at the individual
parts of the segmented view.
Oh, look at one of the,
like the second segment.
Yeah.
So you can see those also
have appropriate descriptions.
In this case, Rollover hotspots for
one of the segments.
And now if we point to the static
text beneath the segmented view,
We're going to go ahead and log on.
You can see that it has a top -- sorry,
it serves as title for UI elements,
which is an array of size one.
And if we lock on to that,
we can use this little go
to pop up to navigate to it.
See that it serves as a
title for an AX group,
and if we go to that AX group,
we will see that that is
the segmented view group,
and we can see that it also
has the inverse relationship,
which is the title UI element attribute.
Thank you, David.
And let's go back to
slides for a few minutes.
Yeah, slides please.
Thank you.
All right.
So that is the second
step of the pyramid.
The next step is to remove
unnecessary elements from
your accessibility hierarchy.
Ooh, that's not right.
Hey, they cut out a whole
part of my presentation.
That's not good.
All right, so we lose the screenshots
I had in the slide.
Well, let's just go to a demo real quick.
I can show it off.
Yeah, they did.
All right, so what we're going to do,
we're going to go ahead
and rerun this application.
And as he's bringing it up,
let me talk a little bit about
Why we need to do what we need to do.
So a lot of you, when you implement your
Carbon applications,
you might use a user pane
to group multiple elements,
or sorry, multiple other views.
You might do this just for
convenience because you want to hide
and show multiple views together.
Generally, that's why you do it.
It's just for convenience or
some kind of logical grouping.
Now, unfortunately,
the Carbon Accessibility
implementation that's built in
doesn't know what the purpose of
any of these arbitrary views are.
So we have to represent them
in the Accessibility hierarchy.
We can't make an assumption that
there's no functionality there
because we just don't know.
You might have installed
Carbon Event Handlers on it that
either do something or do nothing.
We can't make the right decision.
So we put those out
there in the interface.
Sorry, in the Accessibility interface.
Now, unfortunately,
that adds a lot of noise, literally,
to VoiceOver.
A user of VoiceOver that hits
one of these user panes is going
to find an unknown element,
and they're going to
have to navigate into it,
and that's just a big pain.
And so you can see that here.
If we focus on the dairy item,
if you look at the
very top of the window,
this shows the hierarchy that
that static text item lives in.
You can see that above the static
text is an AXUnknown element.
That's a user pane that happens to
group both the static text and the
Image Map view of the food pyramid.
So what we want to do is get
rid of that unknown element.
And we can do that by calling
a very straightforward API.
So let's jump into the code.
So the first thing we do
is we find that user pane.
We happen to give it an ID in our nib
so we can look it up by control ID.
Then we call hiObject
setAccessibilityIgnored and pass true.
And this marks that
individual view as ignored.
Now the cool thing that the
Carbon Accessibility implementation does
is it automatically promotes children
of an ignored element to be children
of that ignored element's parent.
So the best way I can explain this
is by re-running the application.
and showing you what changed.
So if we look at the static text again,
you'll see that that
unknown element was removed.
The static text is now
a child of the window.
And we can show this again by looking
at the Go To pop up on the lock window.
And if we go up to its parent,
we'll see that we're at the window.
So we do all this
promotion automatically,
which is kind of convenient.
Okay, now I'd like to go back to slides.
Slides, please.
Thank you.
Okay.
So we've now done three pieces
of the pyramid and with far less
slides than it took originally.
So now we're gonna go ahead and
we're gonna do the fourth piece,
which is accessorizing any custom
views or custom CDEFs you might have.
The good news is that the
HIV subsystem already provides
a bunch of free information,
a bunch of free accessibility
information about your custom views.
We already know that a view has a
parent and that a view lives in a window
and that a view might have subviews.
So we can already do things like
provide their parent attribute,
their window.
We know their size and position so we
can provide those through accessibility.
But for a custom control,
we don't know what your
control's purpose is.
So it's up to you to provide a
certain amount of other information.
You need to tell us,
or you need to provide
the role for that view.
You need to provide a value if
your view shows some kind of value.
You might need to supply a minimum
or a maximum or various other things
depending on exactly what your view does.
If your view is clickable or pressable,
you probably also want to
support Accessibility Actions.
Probably is the wrong word.
You must support Accessibility Actions
to allow a user of VoiceOver to
trigger that functionality.
Some views, a small subset of views,
need to also provide notifications,
which I don't go into detail on here,
but we've got documentation
that explains how to do that.
So let's go ahead and go back to
the demo machine and I can show you
how to accessorize a custom view.
So if we run the sample app again,
actually on one of the earlier
runs we already saw this too,
if we look at the image map view
that draws the food pyramid,
we can see that it's unknown.
It has some information provided for
it automatically by the HIV subsystem.
It has a role and it
has a role description,
but it's a completely meaningless
role and role description.
It's unknown.
It has a parent.
That's because we know
what its parent view is.
It has a top level UI element,
which is also the window.
It's just an interesting way to refer
to sheets and certain other things.
And we know its size
and position and so on.
We want this outer food pyramid to
be a group around other elements.
We need that guy's role to be AX group.
And we need its role description
to be something like group as well.
And finally, we need that pyramid to have
a set of child elements,
one each representing each of
those buttons inside of it.
So we're going to go into
the code and do all that.
Okay, so this custom view was
implemented with HIFramework.
So this is a little bit
of a quick plug here.
HIFramework deals with some of the
grunt work having to do with HI objects
subclassing and creating custom HIVs.
We automatically take the Carbon events,
we handle them, we call method calls on
your objects instead.
So you can easily do,
if you're a C++ user,
you can do a C++ subclass
of our TView class,
just override the methods
that you're interested in,
and we're going to do the
rest of the registering grunt
work and things like that.
So just for illustrative purposes,
I want to take you into HIFramework
and show you how some of the
details on how the Accessibility
Carbon events are handled.
So this is the event
handler in HIFramework that
handles those Carbon events.
It's a Carbon event
handler like any other.
The first thing it does
is it looks at the event,
the incoming event class.
If it sees that it's
an Accessibility event,
I'm actually going to walk over
here because I can see David's
monitor better than that one.
If it's an Accessibility event,
the first thing we're going to
do is we're going to extract the
UI element out of that event.
Now, don't be scared by this code.
It's just a templatized function.
HIFramework's just doing
some magic behind the scenes.
Really, this is just a call to
get event parameter.
Once we have the UI element,
we extract its identifier
as a convenience.
You'll see that we end up passing this
identifier to the various C++ methods
in our custom view implementation.
Then we look at the kind of
the event that's coming in.
If, for example, if it's an Accessibility
get child at point two,
we extract the parameter from the event.
This time we're extracting the
global mouse location that's coming
in in the event that the assistive
app was interested in using.
And finally, we're going to call a
method on your object,
your custom view object,
called copyAccessibleChildAtPoint.
Now, if your custom object had a
child object at that point,
we're going to go ahead and
stick that back into the
event as a return parameter.
So you can see that if you
just derive from HIFramework,
we're going to do a lot of the parameter
shuffling convenience things for you.
And you can just sit back and be a
C++ client and have an easy life.
The rest of the code is very,
very similar.
We're basically pulling
some parameters out,
maybe massaging them a little bit,
calling a method, and then stuffing the
response back in the event.
So now, what we need to do is we need
to change the values that our
custom view is returning-- sorry,
change the default values that are
getting returned for us for our custom
view's role and role description.
And we also need to provide the
value of its child attribute.
Now, to do that,
we're going to need to override
certain accessibility Carbon events.
Now, HIFramework, by default,
does not install the Carbon event
handlers on views for efficiency's sake.
So the first thing we're going
to do is call activate interface,
which is just a shorthand around
installing the accessibility
event handlers on our view object.
Now, once we've done that,
we can put some prototypes in for
the methods we're interested in.
The first one is the
getAccessibleAttributeNames method.
This method is going to be called when
an assistive app causes a Carbon event
to be sent that's requesting all of the
attributes that a given view supports.
The next method we're going to do
is getAccessibleNamedAttribute.
This method is called when it
needs your view to supply a value
for a particular named attribute.
All right, so let's go to the
implementations of those.
So here's the first one,
get accessible attribute names.
So this method receives a
couple different things.
It receives the Carbon event call
ref and the actual event itself.
It also receives the UI element
to which the event pertains,
and it receives the 64-bit identifier
that's been pulled out of the event,
just as a convenience.
Now, it's also receiving a
CF mutable array ref.
This is the array.
It's a mutable array that you're
supposed to fill out with all of the
attributes that your view supports.
So what we're going to do is
we're going to look at the
incoming identifier for this call.
And if it's zero,
that means it's a request for all
of the accessibility attributes
for the view as a whole,
meaning that food pyramid group.
So this is exactly the
case we want to handle.
Then we call next event handler.
This allows the default
HIV implementation to pre-populate
that array with all of the
attribute names it supports.
In this case, size, position,
and so forth.
Then we add the single
attribute that we are providing,
which is the children attribute.
And then we return no
error and we're done.
So just a note as he's
pasting this other code in,
the HIV base class already added the,
The role and role description
attribute strings to that array.
So that's why we didn't have them there.
When we called callNextEventHandler,
those attributes were added to the array.
Okay, so this is the
getAccessibleNamedAttribute method.
This is called when we need to generate
a value for a particular attribute.
Again, we get the call ref, the event,
the element, and the identifier,
but the new thing we get here
is the attribute name that we
need to supply a value for.
Again, we look for identifier zero
'cause we're supplying the
information for the whole view.
Then we look at the incoming
attribute name and compare it to the
ones we're gonna supply values for.
In this case, if we get the children
attribute coming in,
we know we need to supply the
array of children that we have.
Now, like I said before,
our custom view is an ImageMap view
that has a number of buttons in it.
We need, our children are all of
those button elements.
So what we're gonna do is
we're going to iterate,
sorry, first thing we're gonna do is
we're gonna create an array.
Then we're gonna iterate over all
the button parts in the ImageMap,
and we're gonna build up an element to
represent one of those button parts,
add it to the array,
move on to the next button part,
create an element, add it to the array,
and so forth.
And then finally,
we're going to call setEventParameter
to stick that array into the event
as an output parameter so that
it can get sent across the wire
to the assistive application.
Actually, go back to the create
with HI object identifier.
I wanna talk about that very,
very briefly.
So we're passing our own HI object ref,
which is our own HIV ref of
the ImageMap view in here,
and we're passing non-zero identifiers.
So we've just set ourselves up.
We've just defined our own
64-bit identifier space.
We're saying that identifier
zero represents the whole view,
identifier one represents
the first button part,
two is the second button part, and so on.
Okay, so the next attribute we're going
to supply a value for is the role.
Now by default we got the unknown role,
but we wanted to have the group role.
And in fact we want to use the
system standard group role.
So what we do is we go and look up
in one of the AHA services headers,
axroles.h, and we find the group role.
And we add that to the event as an output
parameter using set event parameter.
And that's all we have to do.
Now whenever we provide a role,
whenever your view
implementation provides a role,
it is your responsibility to
provide a role description.
And a role description is a human
readable or a speakable string
describing that element's purpose.
Now anytime you use a
standard system role,
you can access the standard system
role description by using the HICopy
Accessibility Role Description API.
So here we're just
generating the standard role
description string for group,
stuffing it in the event as an output
parameter and returning no error.
Yeah, so that's it.
So let's go ahead and recompile
and show what we added.
Okay, so now if we hover over
the food pyramid view,
we can see that its role
and role description have
changed to something suitable,
in this case group.
We can also see that it
has an array of children.
- "Six children,
one for each of those button
parts." And if we go to that pop-up,
we can see that they're all unknown.
So this is something we're
going to have to fix later.
So with that,
let's go ahead and go back to
slides and I can talk a little bit
about the next step of the pyramid.
So we've built the fourth step.
The fifth step is accessorizing
your completely custom
interface in your application.
Now, what does completely
custom interface means?
Well, the honest answer is that the
line between the fifth step in
the pyramid and the fourth step
of the pyramid blurs a little bit.
What we just showed,
we accessorized the outer part of a view,
but we didn't accessorize
the inner part of a view.
Now, the inner parts of that view,
the actual part codes,
count as completely custom
interface because the HIV subsystem
can't do a whole lot with parts.
We don't know what rectangle
corresponds to a certain part,
what its functionality is,
and things like that.
So if you're accessorizing
certain parts of a custom HIV,
that counts as completely
custom interface.
Another example of completely custom
interface is when your application is
using your in-house view system or a
third-party view system like Power Plant.
The toolbox doesn't know
anything about Power Plant.
We can't make assumptions
about Power Plant classes,
and we certainly can't provide
accessibility information for it.
So it's up to your application
to provide the accessibility
information for those custom views.
Now, finally, the most--
Probably the hardest thing to
accessorize is a completely custom
interface that's procedurally driven.
Maybe you've got old school
wait next event code.
You're watching events
come off the queue.
When you see a click come in,
you do some special stuff to
handle clicking and so forth.
But you don't really have an object
model that defines your interface.
So that's also a completely
custom interface.
[Transcript missing]
The next thing you need to do is make
sure it's inserted into the accessibility
containment hierarchy properly.
By default, the toolbox will build an
accessibility hierarchy that looks
just like the Windows view hierarchy,
essentially.
A window has child views,
those views have children, and so forth.
You need to make sure that your
HI objects and the elements you build
from those HI objects are inserted
into that containment hierarchy
properly so that they can be found
during hit testing and so forth.
So in particular,
we have events that get sent
out to find a child at point.
You're probably going to need
to install Event Handler on your
parent so that you can intercept
its Get Child at Point functionality
and then provide your child,
or provide the element you're
interested in serving up.
Of course, your element must have that
parent as an attribute.
And we also have an event that is
sent out to follow the focus chain,
so you want to hook into that as well.
And finally, your view might also need
to support notifications.
So let's go into the code and
let's accessorize the completely
custom part of our sample app.
So we can switch monitors
over to the demo.
Okay, so let's go ahead and rerun.
Oh, prototypes first.
All right,
so David is just going to paste in a
few prototypes to do what we want to do,
and I'm going to discuss these when
we actually get to the implementation.
Oh, we're going to do,
I want to go do a run first.
So actually take out the prototypes.
Or just do a run without building.
Okay,
so now if we look at the Food Pyramid
group and lock on and then
tunnel into one of its children.
This is what you get.
This is not good.
A couple problems here.
First of all, it's got a role and a role
description of unknown,
and it's got a parent of null.
But even worse,
its hierarchy is empty except for itself.
Now, all this is just not good,
so we need to fix all this.
Each of these button parts is
basically just like a push button.
You can click it, and when it's clicked,
some functionality happens.
So we need it to support
the press action for one.
Of course, it's visible,
so it's got to have a size and position.
It's in a window,
so we need to provide that.
We need it to have an appropriate parent.
And then finally,
we need to make sure that the parent,
the Image Map View,
has each of those button
parts as children.
And we already did part of that,
but there's a little bit more
we're going to do in the code.
So let's jump over to the source.
So this is the Get Accessible
Attribute Names method that we
already implemented to provide
the attribute names for the group.
Now what we're going to do is
we're going to provide attributes
for each of those button parts.
Now here's where the
identifier gets cool.
We already kind of defined
implicitly that while identifier
0 means the whole group,
identifier 1 means the first button part.
So we look at the incoming identifier,
and if it's in the range of 1 to
the number of button parts we have,
we're going to take action.
We're going to call
the next event handler.
That's going to allow the
HI object mechanism to add
three attributes to the array.
It's going to add the role,
the role description,
and the parent attributes to the array.
So we're just going to leverage
that free functionality.
And then we are going to add a bunch of
other attributes to the array manually.
We're going to give it a description.
Now, here I want to reverse to
something we talked about earlier.
Earlier on when we looked at the
interface and found places where
we needed to provide context,
we determined that we could
provide context sort of as
a client in the application.
We had a static text that we knew
we put next to a segmented view,
so we associated them.
And you'll find that in a lot
of your applications interface,
you're going to link things together
and give things context as a client.
Now, in this case, we're going to give it
context as an implementation.
We know because we're an XML based
image map view that there's text
in our image map XML that describes
what each of those buttons do.
So our implementation here is
going to be able to provide
the description attribute.
Then we're going to give things like size
and position in the window and so forth.
So now let's go ahead and provide
some values for those attributes.
Paste in a little bit of code.
Yeah, so from the peanut gallery,
it looks like a lot of code.
No, this is a good point.
It looks like a lot of code,
but it's really not a whole lot of code.
It's basically a big switch statement.
Put a lot of comments and a lot of
white space in the sample code so
you can understand what we're doing.
But really,
each of these is just comparing
a string and then stuffing an
event parameter in an event.
So it's really simple stuff.
So again,
we're providing attribute values for
button parts of our view as a whole.
So we look for an appropriate identifier.
Next,
we look at the incoming attribute string.
So in this case,
we've got the description string.
We're gonna give them an
appropriate description.
Again,
we have a utility routine inside our
Image Map view that can look up the
appropriate description from the XML.
So we generate that, stick into the event
as an output parameter,
and we're done.
Another example is the parent attribute.
Here's something a
little bit interesting.
We know the parent of each
of those button parts is the
Image Map View as a whole.
So we create an element representing
the Image Map View as a whole.
We pass in the view and
we use identifier zero,
and the resulting element is stuffed
into the event as an output parameter.
Now we know each of our button
parts is basically a push button,
so we need to give it the
standard system button role.
We look in the
AX Services header in ax-roles.h,
find the standard button role,
add that to the event
as an output parameter,
and we're done.
And we're going to give it a
role description using the HICopy
Accessibility Role Description
API to look up the standard
system role description and so on.
The only other one I want to talk
about is the ax-position attribute.
Now, when you provide a value for
the ax-position attribute,
it must be the global screen
location of your element.
Because we're running
in a compositing window,
and because we've written this
view to be a compositing view,
we can very easily generate the
bounds of one of these button
parts in view local coordinates.
So we do that,
but now we need to translate
those view local coordinates
into global coordinates.
We've added a convenience API in
Tiger called HIPointConvert,
which can do exactly that.
So once we've translated that point,
we add it to the event as an output
parameter and return no error.
Okay,
so now this code that David selected
here actually has a bug in it
in the version you can download.
This is the correct code.
The version you can download
today I think always says that
a button part is not focused.
This code is the right code.
We actually provide,
we tell you a correct indication of
whether a button is focused or not.
We're going to try to get our
new code out there on the web as
soon as we can after the show.
Yeah, so now let's start doing some other
interesting methods to support
Various other functionality.
All right.
So this is the
isAccessibleNamedAttributeSettable
method.
This method is called when your
view receives a Carbon event when an
assistive app wants to know whether
a given attribute is settable.
Now,
whenever you have a focusable element,
focus is implicitly settable.
You should be able to
set its focus to true,
but you should not be able
to set its focus to false.
You can only focus something.
You can't unfocus it via
the Accessibility API.
So we need to announce the fact that
our AXFocused attribute is settable,
and we do that with this method.
So again,
we look at the identifier space.
We make sure we're getting
an identifier that represents
one of these button parts.
If so, if we're being asked about
the focused attribute,
we return a settable value of true,
and HIFrameworks is going to stuff that
into the event as an output parameter.
There was one other note
I want to mention about this.
Um...
Right, so we only handle one
attribute in this function,
and that's because HIToolbox, by default,
assumes all attributes are unsettable
unless you explicitly override
that via the Carbon event or the
method if you're using HIFramework.
So you only need to handle
this method or implement this
method for settable attributes.
Okay, so we know focus is settable,
so let's go ahead and make it settable.
So we implement the
setAccessibleNamedAttribute method.
This corresponds to a Carbon event
that comes in from an assistive
app when an assistive app says,
"Please set this
attribute's value to foo."
So we look for the
appropriate identifier.
We look for the appropriate attribute.
We extract the value
out of the Carbon event.
Now, the incoming value could
be potentially anything.
You never know what an assistive
app is going to send you.
VoiceOver is really good,
but who knows what other app might
be trying to stuff values in with.
You can call getEventParameter and
just ask for the type you like.
getEventParameter will automatically
coerce the data if it can.
Otherwise, it'll return an error.
So if we get the
appropriate Boolean value,
and if it's true, we go ahead and call
setKeyboardFocus on ourselves,
passing in the view and
passing in the identifier,
which is a control part code.
And that just happens to be
how our view is implemented.
We know how to focus control part codes.
But if focused is false,
we return a special error,
which is K-A-X, error illegal argument.
You return this error any
time you get a set request
with a value you can't handle.
Okay, before,
we already gave the Image Map View an
array of children elements,
but that's not the only way.
We need to do more to completely
splice it into the hierarchy.
We need to make sure that that
Image Map View can report a
child at a given point of itself.
So here we're going to implement the
Copy Accessible Child at Point API,
which corresponds to the Get Child at
Point Carbon event that I showed
in earlier some of the slides.
The important parameter here
is the In Where parameter.
That is a global screen
location that is being queried.
So it's your views or your element's
responsibility to return the first order
child of itself at the given point.
Don't tunnel down into grandparents.
Just return the first
order child of yourself.
Now, in this case,
because we are the Image Map View here,
we're going to need to
return child of ourselves.
So we're looking at
identifier zero coming in.
We first take that global
screen location that came in,
we translate it to view local
coordinates because we just so happen
to have our own internal hit test
function that can generate a child
part and a view local coordinate.
We generate the child part,
and if it is indeed in one
of our child button parts,
we build an element out of that
by calling the long API there.
We pass in our HIV ref and we pass
in the appropriate identifier,
and that child gets returned in
an output parameter and stuffed
in the event by HIV framework.
Hold questions to the end,
unless you found a bug.
I have a question about that.
We'll come back.
We can show this during Q&A.
So the next method is get
accessible action names.
Now,
each of our button parts is a button.
It needs to be pressable.
And you do this by supporting actions.
Now, just like supporting attributes,
your element needs to be able to provide
all of the actions that it supports.
In this case, there's only one action
we need to support.
So we look for an appropriate
identifier coming in,
and then we add the press
action to the output array.
And it just says, "We support the press
action," and we're done there.
Anytime you support an action,
you need to be able to provide a
human-readable or speakable description
of what that action's purpose is.
So there's this Copy Accessible
Named Action Description API,
which corresponds to a Carbon event
that HIFrameworks is handling for us.
So we look for the
appropriate identifier.
And since we support the Press action,
and the Press is a
standard system action,
you can generate the standard system
action description with the HICopy
Accessibility Action Description API.
Now when the press actually happens,
when VoiceOver actually issues the press,
"Please press this button, Command,
to you," we send out
another Carbon event,
the Perform Named Action Carbon event.
HI Framework in turn calls
this method on your view.
Oh, that's right.
So this is another example.
The sample code that you
can download today-- Oh,
it is the focus one.
All right.
Ignore that.
So what we do is we look for
the appropriate identifier,
and we know we only support one action,
so we don't even bother looking
at the incoming action name.
And then we call HIViewSimulateClick,
which will cause the part to flash,
causes all the Carbon events
like KEVENT_CONTROL_HIT and
KEVENT_COMMAND_PROCESS to get sent out.
- Maybe talk about that.
Well, okay,
so since we're rebuilding here, most,
maybe about half of the focused code in
the sample app you can download is wrong.
I already talked about some of it,
but specifically the code in
SetAccessibleNamedAttribute,
if I remember correctly, it...
either didn't exist or
it allowed unfocusing.
I forget which.
Anyway, we're going to correct that.
You'll be able to download new code soon.
All right, so if we launch UILM or
Accessibility Browser,
and hover over one of the button parts.
We can now see that it
makes a lot more sense.
Its role is AX button.
It's in the AX group,
which represents the food pyramid itself.
It's got the appropriate parent.
It's got an appropriate description,
size and position and so forth.
So that was about it.
That is how you accessorize
the completely custom
parts of your application.
So let's go ahead and go back to slides.
So now that you've implemented
the final tier of the pyramid,
you've achieved full accessibility power.
Not only is this going to allow
you to work with VoiceOver,
but it's going to allow a whole
suite of other assistive applications
to work with your application.
It can offer improved scriptability,
and if you saw the State of the Union,
you saw some of the other
types of applications that can
leverage accessibility features.
Now, you've got all the tools you need
to accessorize your application,
but it's time to make a decision.
If you have a lot of completely
custom stuff in your app,
it's quite a bit of work to do
all the accessibility gunk for it.
I mean, I have to be honest here,
older code takes quite
a while to accessorize.
However,
we can offer you free accessibility
support through HIView.
Now, it's going to take some effort
to adopt HIView as well,
but if you're already planning
on spending a certain amount of
time implementing accessibility,
why don't you spend some of
that time implementing HIView,
get a bunch of
accessibility work for free,
and then also set the groundwork
for doing things like compositing
mode and generally making your
application a lot more modern.
So,
think about those tradeoffs a little bit,
and if it makes sense,
adopt HIView as part of your
accessorization process.
Finally, we've got HIFramework,
which is our C++ wrapper
around HI object instantiation,
HIV subclassing, and so forth.
It's what the sample code uses,
and it makes accessibility
a heck of a lot easier.
So you might consider using that as well.
So we have just a few minutes left.
I'd like to bring Pattie back up,
and she can run VoiceOver with our
finished Image Map view and show
that everything is working well.
Russell, go ahead and-- yeah,
there we go.
Which app?
This one?
No.
So go into here.
So that's the inaccessible one.
Alright, so I'm going to launch the
two of them side by side.
First, I'm going to run VoiceOver on
the accessorized version.
Of course, we have to press Command + F5.
VoiceOver on Finder
Accessible Window Back Button.
Image Map View Food Pyramid
Window Window Fasten Sweeps Button.
Okay, that's the accessorized version,
which I'll show you shortly.
Image Map View Food Pyramid
Window Window Unknown.
Okay,
so we're on the application on the left,
which right here,
which is the unaccessorized version.
And I'm taking my VoiceOver on
the application right now.
And let's listen again to hear
what the VoiceOver cursor is on.
Unknown is in the VoiceOver cursor.
That's not very useful, is it?
Well, let's keep going and see what else
we find out about this application.
Select Radio Button.
Radio Button.
All right, so far,
I know -- the only thing I know about
this application is there's an unknown
and there's some radio buttons.
I don't even know anything
else about this application.
So for me right now,
this application is not very useful.
So let's go ahead and see the
version that has been accessorized,
and let's see the difference.
Image Map View Food Pyramid
Window Window Fasten Sweeps Button.
Okay, so again, if you listen again.
Fasten Sweeps Button is
in the VoiceOver cursor.
All right,
so at least right now I have a sense
of where my VoiceOver cursor is.
So let's go ahead and navigate around.
Dairy Button.
Meat and Eggs Button.
Good,
so now I have a better sense that there
are lots of buttons in this food pyramid,
and each of them belongs to a food group.
So let's go ahead and interact with that.
Press Meat and Eggs Button.
Good,
now we can interact with the buttons.
Let's go ahead and see what
else is in this application.
Vegetables But Fruits But Grains Button.
Meat and Eggs.
Invisible Hot Spots.
Select Radio Button.
Invisible Hot Spots Radio Button.
Oh,
so those radio buttons we heard earlier,
now I have a better sense what they are.
For example,
the one we're on right now is the
Visible Hot Spot Radio Button.
And of course, I can also press it.
Press Visible Hot Spots Radio Button.
So suddenly this application is much,
much more useful.
So just by making the
application accessible,
now VoiceOver can run with it.
VoiceOver off.
Go ahead and have Guy back up.
Thank you, Patty.
All right, now if we can go back
to slides real quickly.
Try to get to the last few.
Okay, so some other views, or some other,
I said view far too
many times this session,
some other sessions that
might be of interest.
Tomorrow we talk about how to build
a custom HIV from the ground up.
So if you're one of those
applications that has old code
that's thinking of modernizing,
in part to get accessibility support,
I highly recommend you
attend this session.
We're covering a few topics
that we haven't talked about in
the past in our HIV sessions.
We have an accessibility
feedback forum Thursday morning,
and we're running out of time here,
so I think you're going to have
to save your questions for then
or catch us after the show,
or sorry, catch us after the session.
And finally, on Friday,
starting at 2 p.m., we
have an accessibility lab.
So if you're having troubles
accessorizing your app,
or if you want a little
bit of help or pointers,
feel free to drop by then.
We're going to have
VoiceOver engineers here,
some engineers from my team here
to help out with the HIV aspects.
So please drop by.
by and bring your questions,
bring any problems you've found.
If you have further questions,
you can contact Mary Beth Janes,
who's our Senior Segment Manager.
And we also have an
Accessibility Dev mailing list,
which is monitored by several
of the accessibility engineers
and the VoiceOver engineers.
If you have questions after the show,
feel free to post onto this mailing list,
and we'll do our best to help you there.
Right now on the developer website,
we have documentation,
conceptual documentation and
API level documentation for
accessorizing Carbon applications.
So I urge you to check that stuff out.
The sample code that we
showed today is also up there.